Research scientist Galen Erso and his family are in hiding when Orson Krennic, Director of Advanced Weapons Research for the Imperial Military, forces Galen to return to work on Krennic's unfinished Death Star, a space station capable of destroying entire planets. After his wife is killed, their daughter Jyn escapes and is taken into safety by Saw Gerrera.

Fifteen years later, Bodhi Rook, an Imperial cargo shuttle pilot, defects and smuggles a holographic message from Galen to Gerrera on the moon Jedha. An adult Jyn is freed from Imperial captivity by the Rebels, to get Gerrera's help to bring Galen before the Senate.

Jyn and Rebel officer Cassian Andor and his droid K-2SO arrive on Jedha to find Gerrera, where his partisans are engaged in an armed insurgency against the Empire, which is extracting Kyber crystals from the planet to power the superweapon. With the aid of blind warrior Chirrut Îmwe and mercenary Baze Malbus, Jyn finds Gerrera, who is holding Rook. Saw shows her the hologram, in which her father expresses his love for her and discloses his coerced help on the project. Galen also reveals he has covertly compromised the Death Star's design so it can be destroyed. He tells her that the plans are at an Imperial high-security data bank on the planet Scarif.

Grand Moff Tarkin meets with Krennic on the Death Star and expresses skepticism about the project and its management. As a demonstration, Krennic uses a low-powered shot from the weapon to destroy Jedha's capital and crush the insurgency led by Gerrera, forcing Jyn and her group to flee with Rook, while Gerrera elects to remain behind and die. Tarkin congratulates Krennic but then uses security breaches under Krennic's command as a pretext to take control of the project.

Ordered to kill Galen, the rebels travel to Galen's research facility. Jyn attempts to save Galen, but he is mortally wounded in a Rebel bombing raid and dies in her arms. Just before the attack, he admits to Krennic that he was responsible for the leaked message. The rebels escape in a stolen Imperial cargo shuttle.

Jyn proposes a plan to steal the Death Star schematics from Scarif, but with her father and Gerrera dead and the hologram destroyed, the Rebel leadership have no way of verifying her story and cannot agree on a plan. Frustrated at their inaction, Jyn, Andor, K-2SO, and a number of rebels use the stolen Imperial shuttle to raid the data bank themselves. Disguised as Imperial officers, the three search for the plans, while the rest of their team set off explosives and commence firing in the nearby landing area in order to distract the resident Imperial garrison. They are joined off-planet by the Rebel fleet, which has belatedly decided to help by attacking the space station that controls a shield gate to the planet, and also by Krennic who aims to review all of Galen's communications to discover what information he had leaked. Jyn obtains the Death Star plans from the data vaults while K-2SO is destroyed fending off stormtroopers. Rook, Îmwe, Malbus and several Rebels are overwhelmed and killed in the process and Jyn is confronted by Krennic, who declares the Empire's inevitable victory, only to be shot by Andor.

Tarkin uses the Death Star to destroy the compromised base, while Jyn uses the base communication system to send the Death Star plans to the Alliance command ship in the space battle above; Krennic, Jyn and Andor die as the base is annihilated. As the Rebel fleets are in the process of retreating, an Imperial fleet led by Darth Vader intercepts the rebel ships. Vader boards the command ship to retrieve the plans, killing several Rebel troopers in the process, only to watch the Tantive IV escape with the plans in the possession of Princess Leia, who acknowledges that they will provide the Rebellion hope for its future.
ime now is 8:13 pm, 19th of December, 2016
to my future employers, pls hire me
to my future self, pls finish the C course you were supposed to do.
that is all
yep
thank you
